vinca - simple spaced repetition
================================

SYNOPSIS
--------
Vinca is a command line flashcard program.
It is used to create and review study cards
according to the principles of spaced repetition.

TL;DR
-----
* `vinca 2`:
	create a simple question and answer card
* `vinca r`:
	review your collection of cards

QUICKSTART
----------
Use `vinca browse` to open the browser. Then read the BROWSER HOTKEYS section.

BROWSER HOTKEYS
---------------
### Navigation
	j		scroll down one card
	k		scroll up one card
	q		close the browser
### Card Generation
	2		create a simple question and answer ("two-line") card
	v		create a verses card
### Reviewing
	r		Review all the cards in the browser.
	q		Exit a review session and return to the browser
### Management
	e		edit the card
	d		delete the card
	t		edit the card's tags
	p		preview the card without grading it
	u		undo the card's most recent grade
	+		postpone the card until tomorrow
	M		edit the card's metadata
	H		edit the card's history

TUTORIAL
--------
### Main Idea: the NOUN VERB syntax
Vinca uses a NOUN VERB syntax. The two kinds of nouns are a _collection_ of cards and a specific _card_.

### Examples of NOUN VERB syntax.

* `vinca col browse`:
	_col_ is the noun; it refers to the entire collection of cards.
	_browse_ is the verb; it launches the browser for this collection of cards.
* `vinca col review`:
	_col_ is the noun; _review_ is the verb.
* `vinca lc edit`:
	_lc_ is the noun; it refers to the most recently created card ("last-card")
	_edit_ is the verb; this command will edit the most recently created card
* `vinca lc delete`:
	_lc_ is the noun; it refers to the most recently created card ("last-card")
	_delete_ is the verb; this command will delete the card we just created

### Chaining
If the output of a command is a noun we can apply a verb to it.

### Examples of Chaining

* `vinca col sort due browse`:
	`col sort due` returns a list of cards sorted by due-date. We then open a browser with these cards to browse these cards sorted by due-date.
* `vinca col findall Lincoln delete`:
	`col findall Lincoln` returns a list of cards containing the word Lincoln. This command will delete all of them.

### Indexing
We can refer to a card by its position in a collection.
*NOTE*: indicies begin at 0 not 1.

### Examples of Indexing
Suppose `vinca findall Lincoln` returns the following list of cards:

	- Who is the 16th American president? | Lincoln
	- What was Lincoln's first name? | Abraham

Then we can reference these cards by their index:

	* `vinca findall Lincoln 1 delete`:
		This will erase the card asking for Lincoln's first name.
	
	* `vinca findall Lincoln 0 review`:
		This will review the first card.

### Exceptions to the NOUN VERB syntax
The most import abbreviation is the ommission of _col_.

    - `vinca purge` is equivalent `vinca col purge`
    - `vinca count` is equivalent to `vinca col count`
The set-cards-path command is used to specify a directory which vinca will search for cards.

### Learning More
Read through `vinca col --help` and `vinca lc --help` to learn all the possible subcommands for collections and cards.

AUTHOR
------
olaird25@gmail.com
